\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@comment %**start of header
@setfilename GNU remotecontrol.info
@settitle GNU remotecontrol @value{VERSION}
@c Commented out the below reference to `@syncodeindex' since it was
@c breaking the build. See section 13.4.2 of the Texinfo manual for more info.
@c @syncodeindex pg cp
@comment %**end of header
@set VERSION 0.01
@set UPDATED 13 May 2012
@copying
This manual is for GNU remotecontrol (version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}), which is an example in the Texinfo documentation.

Copyright @copyright{} 2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant Sections, with the Front-Cover Texts being ``A GNU Manual,'' and with the Back-Cover Texts as in (a) below.  A copy of the license is included in the section entitled ``GNU Free Documentation License.''

(a) The FSF's Back-Cover Text is: ``You have the freedom to copy and modify this GNU manual.  Buying copies from the FSF supports it in developing GNU and promoting software freedom.''
@end quotation
@end copying

@dircategory Texinfo documentation system
@direntry
*: (sample)Invoking.
@end direntry

@titlepage
@title GNU remotecontrol
@subtitle for version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}
@author Stephen H. Dawson
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@c Output the Table of Contents at the beginning.
@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top GNU remotecontrol

This manual is for GNU remotecontrol (version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}).
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Overview::  An overview of GNU remotecontrol.
* Scope::  The scope of this document. 
* Key Features::  Key features of GNU remotecontrol, described.
* GNU remotecontrol & BACnet::  How they work together.
* Tax Benefit::  Tax benefits of using GNU remotecontrol.
* System Architecture and Concepts::  The architecture of the system.
* Usage Instructions::  How to use it.
* Use Case Scenarios::  How you might want to use it.
* Implementation Cost::  The cost to get started.
* Roadmap::  Where we're going.
* REFERENCE::  Reference materials for later use.
* Contributors::  Who made this?
* GNU Free Documentation License:: The license covering this document.
@c * Index::  Complete index.
@end menu

@node Overview
@chapter Overview
GNU remotecontrol is a web application serving as a management tool for multiple IP enabled HVAC thermostats (device), and other Building Automation devices.  The purpose of GNU remotecontrol is to read from and write to multiple IP enabled thermostats all at one time.

The GNU remotecontrol framework is designed to work with any IP enabled HVAC thermostat, but can be easily developed to operate any number of networked devices.  This framework is built with @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CURL,cURL}, @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PHP,PHP}, and @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MySQL,MySQL}.  Its system architecture is enabled on a server-client principle, where users can login to the server using a web browser to manage multiple remote devices from a single web interface.  The GNU remotecontrol framework was developed to work in combination with a Remote Monitoring server, which monitors configurable device parameters and can generate automatic system responses and alerts.  If required, the GNU remotecontrol is both scalable and distributable over multiple computers serving different roles in the HVAC or remote device management framework.  The @uref{http://www.proliphix.com/,Proliphix} IP thermostat (currently the only true IP enabled HVAC thermostat on the market) was used to develop the GNU remotecontrol web application.

@node Scope
@chapter Scope
The scope of this documentation is to address the 3 roles that function in GNU remote control; @strong{Information Technology}, @strong{Energy Management}, and @strong{End User}.  The documentation contains information pertinent to each role.  The intended end result is to help equip each role with the necessary definitions and reference information in order to further high level communication among the roles.

The following list is the minimum recommended chapter reading, per role.

@section Information Technology
     @itemize @bullet
         @item
         @xref{Key Features}.
         @item
         @xref{System Architecture and Concepts}
         @item
         @xref{Usage Instructions}
     @end itemize
        
@section Energy Management
     @itemize @bullet
         @item
         @xref{Key Features}
         @item
	 @xref{GNU remotecontrol & BACnet}
         @item
	 @xref{Tax Benefit}
         @item
	 @xref{System Architecture and Concepts}
         @item
	 @xref{Usage Instructions}
         @item
	 @xref{Use Case Scenarios}
         @item
	 @xref{Implementation Cost}
         @item
	 @xref{Roadmap}
         @item
	 @xref{REFERENCE}
     @end itemize

@section End User
     @itemize @bullet
	 @item
	 @xref{Key Features}
	 @item
	 @xref{Usage Instructions}
	 @item
	 @xref{Use Case Scenarios}
	 @end itemize

@node Key Features
@chapter Key Features

@section Present Capabilities
GNU remotecontrol is designed to substantially reduce the time & effort necessary to remotely manage multiple IP thermostats, while significantly increasing your productivity through its many useful and time saving features. The User Interface is no more difficult than using any other web application involving simple check boxes and pull-down menus.  GNU remotecontrol, combined with the Remote Monitoring Server, work together as a complete HVAC energy management system.  GNU remotecontrol more than pays for itself by saving time/effort in manual labor for managing all resources individually....and then some.

@section HVAC Thermostat
It is necessary to understand the design and usage intent of the HVAC thermostat in order to fully grasp the design and usage intent of GNU remotecontrol.

The @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/thermostat,HVAC thermostat} is often a combination of either a @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Relay,relay} or a @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Semiconductor_device,semiconductor device} to have circuits either opened or closed, off or on.  Examples of this include heating, cooling, or a fan.  The addition of a scheduling option to turn 1 of these items off or on at a certain date/time does make it more practical of a device in terms of managing day-to-day operation of a HVAC system.  Adding in the ability to track run time duration for heating, cooling, fan help energy efficiency measurements.  The final addition of remote access, through the traditional IP enabled data network, takes the HVAC thermostat to an interconnected device capable of multiple read/write techniques.  The cable from the thermostat to the HVAC equipment is solid core 18-@uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/American_wire_gauge,AWG}, either 4 or 8 separately jacketed wires, depending on system capability, all contained within a protective jacket.

@section Choosing Decision Makers
You will most likely need to work with others who have a different skill set than you do in order to achieve an energy management strategy.  It is necessary to carefully plan for your selection of the decision makers you choose to work with.  Choosing decision makers that are capable to run your HVAC and IT systems is paramount to the success of your system performance.

@subsection HVAC
Being a licensed @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Professional_engineer,Professional Engineer} does not make that person a @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Certified_Energy_Manager,Certified Energy Manager}.  They are separate qualifications, each with their own requirements.  Go with a Certified Energy Manager to help you determine if you qualify for any tax benefit for commercial building being rated as energy efficient.  Even if you don't qualify for a tax benefit, you will most likely find a very beneficial set of methods to increase your energy management strategies that makes paying the Certified Energy Manger well worth the expense.

@subsection Information Technology
Being in an IT role does not make one qualified do an end-to-end design of an IT system. Relevant certifications help to know if one is really capable to do what they say they can do.  Experience is probably the strongest credential one can have for being capable to run an IT system.  Simply put, operation does not equal design.  They are separate qualifications, each with their own requirements.

@subsection Conclusion
Look to your Benefit Analysis for decision making on how you need to design and operate your energy management strategy.

@section Security Considerations
The following is a list of information that will greatly help you plan for the network implementation and configuration of your energy management strategy.

@subsection Supervisory Control And Data Acquisition
@uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SCADA,SCADA} speaks to the industrial side of HVAC automation.

@subsection Industrial Control System
@uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Industrial_Control_Systems,ICS} speaks to industrial production facilities.

@subsection System Administration-Audit-Network Security
@uref{http://www.sans.org/,SANS} specializes in Internet Security training.

@section Frequently Asked Questions

@subsection Why do we call it GNU remotecontrol?
This code was originally called JUT...“Just Use This” to represent the intention of this software automation to take the complicated and make it very, very simple, from a user perspective.  The name changed to GNU remotecontrol, when code was released under the GNU license. 

@subsection Why do I need GNU remotecontrol?
If you have IP thermostats, you know that it takes time/effort to keep your energy usage down and control your climate for your comfort.  This time and effort is increased with each remote device or HVAC unit that you want to administer.  GNU remotecontrol helps you spend less time/effort administrating your IP thermostats, provides automated record keeping of what changed, who changed it, and when it was changed.  GNU remotecontrol deployment helps keep your energy usage as low as possible. 

@subsection What will GNU remotecontrol do for me?
Free up your time/effort for starters.  Also, enable you to know who did what to your IP thermostats when GNU remotecontrol was used to change your IP thermostats.  Finally, your GNU remotecontrol application can help you minimize your energy costs.

@subsection Can I figure my energy usage for my HVAC units?
The IP thermostat will very much help with that measurement.

@subsection How do I use GNU remotecontrol?
Pretty easy, actually.  Select the IP thermostats you want to change the settings of...make the change.....and that’s it.  You can easily see the time/effort you save changing the air conditioning from 75°F to 73°F for several IP thermostats, all at once!  Then, imagine changing your setback schedule somehow on top of that, for say 30 different IP thermostats, all at once!

@subsection Can I use GNU remotecontrol and Remote Monitoring Server together?
Oh, yes.  Think of GNU remotecontrol as writing to your IP thermostats, and Remote Monitoring Server reading information about your IP thermostats. The two go hand in hand.  They are intended to work together.

@subsection What about the weather, can I tie weather related data into GNU remotecontrol and Remote Monitoring Server?
Yep. Use your Remote Monitoring Server to collect information about the weather from International Weather Services for the location of your IP thermostat. That will tell you a great deal about your energy management plan.

@subsection Mobile access for GNU remotecontrol?
Yes, but that depends on who you have for cell phone service, the type of cell phone you have, and the Internet browser on that phone.

@subsection Do I need to install anything to my computer?
Nope.  GNU remotecontrol is a @uref{http://www.w3.org/standards/,WC3} compliant web application.  More times than not, your network is ready to go as-is.

@subsection How many different users will be able to use GNU remotecontrol?
You can set up different user accounts, but the nature of an IP thermostat requires the people touching it to be very clear with each other as to how they want to set the IP thermostat.

@subsection Encryption...is GNU remotecontrol safe to use with my network?
We recommend you use a High Grade (AES-256 bit) encryption to secure the connection from your computer to your GNU remotecontrol server and verify the identity of your server with your own signed SSL Certificate.  The connection from your computer to your IP thermostat is not changed from your normal connection to your Proliphix IP thermostat.

@subsection Is GNU remotecontrol compatible with BACnet?
Yes. @xref{GNU remotecontrol & BACnet}.

@subsection Can I use GNU remotecontrol to help Test & Balance my HVAC system?
Yes. Remote Monitoring Server & GNU remotecontrol work together to help you do just this. Recorded data of your HVAC system's usage and outdoor weather information is priceless for testing & balancing.  The review of recorded data offers considerable cost savings, in both time and effort, to when optimizing your system setup.  Additionally, you can reduce the number of people necessary to do the testing and balancing down to 1 person.

@section Future Capabilities
The next logical step is to expand GNU remotecontrol to be certified
with the BACnet communication protocol. @xref{GNU remotecontrol & BACnet} for more information.  The @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Modbus,MODBUS} communication protocol also may be implemented at a future date, but demand for this capability enhancement is not presently clear.

@node GNU remotecontrol & BACnet
@chapter GNU remotecontrol & BACnet
@section Introduction
The @uref{http://www.bacnet.org/,BACnet} data communication protocol of @uref{http://www.ashrae.org/,AHSRAE} provides the @uref{http://www.bacnet.org/WG/XML/index.html,BACnet XML Working Group}. 

@section Associated Specifications
The following is a list of information that will greatly help you plan for the usage of the data captured in your energy management strategy.

     @itemize @bullet
	 @item
	 @strong{Extensible Markup Language} - @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/XML,XML}
	 
	 @emph{"The design goals of XML emphasize simplicity, generality, and usability over the Internet. It is a textual data format with strong support via Unicode for the languages of the world. Although the design of XML focuses on documents, it is widely used for the representation of arbitrary data structures, for example in web services."}
	 
	 
	 @emph{"XML documents consist entirely of characters from the Unicode repertoire. Except for a small number of specifically excluded control characters, any character defined by Unicode may appear within the content of an XML document."}
	 
	 
	 @item
	 @strong{Representational State Transfer} - @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Representational_state_transfer, REST}
	 
	 @emph{"Unlike SOAP-based web services, there is no "official" standard for RESTful web services. This is because REST is an architecture, unlike SOAP, which is a protocol. Even though REST is not a standard, a RESTful implementation such as the Web can use standards like HTTP, URI, XML, etc."}
	 
	 
	 @item
	 @strong{BACnet} @uref{http://www.bacnet.org/Addenda/index.html,ADDENDA AND COMPANION STANDARDS}
	 
		@itemize @bullet
		@item
		@uref{http://www.bacnet.org/Addenda/add-135-2008t.pdf,Addendum 135-2008t}
		
		@item
		@uref{http://www.bacnet.org/Addenda/Add-2004-135c.pdf,Addendum 2004-135c}
		
		@item
		@uref{http://www.bacnet.org/Addenda/Add-135-2010am-APR1-1_chair-approved.pdf,Addendum 135-2010am (Proposed)}
		@end itemize
	 
	 @item
	 @strong{The Native PHP} @uref{http://www.php.net/manual/en/book.xml.php,XML Parser}
	 @end itemize

@section Going Forward
The roadmap of GNU remotecontrol is a commitment to International standards and protocols for Information Technology in order to provide availability, relevance, transparency, and maintenance of the GNU remotecontrol framework (@xref{Roadmap}).  The BACnet XML Working Group is an excellent example of these attributes.

@node Tax Benefit
@chapter Tax Benefit
@uref{http://www.irs.gov/irb/2006-26_IRB/ar11.html,Internal Revenue Bulletin: 2006-26}, @strong{Notice 2006-52}, @emph{Deduction for Energy Efficient Commercial Buildings} defines the tax deduction allowed for the hardware and software required for GNU remotecontrol to operate in commercial buildings in the United States.  The costs for GNU remotecontrol are 100% tax deductible...if you meet these requirements.  The tax deduction, combined with spending less money for energy due to an improved energy management strategies, means GNU remotecontrol more than pays for itself.

@node System Architecture and Concepts
@chapter System Architecture and Concepts
@section Necessary vs. Optional
The following pieces of the GNU remotecontrol architecture are necessary.
     @itemize @bullet
	 @item
	 Web Server
	 @item
	 Database Server
	 @end itemize

The following pieces of the GNU remotecontrol architecture are optional.
     @itemize @bullet
	 @item
	 Remote Monitoring Server
	 @item
	 Email Server
	 @end itemize

@section Web Server
@subsection Security Model
GNU remotecontrol is configured with the security necessary for any other @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_application,Web Application}.  You are responsible for setting up your security on your @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_server,Web Server}.

@subsection Requirements
GNU remotecontrol can run anywhere that can run PHP with cURL and MySQL.  Follow the requirements stated by the Web Server application you so choose to use.

GNU remotecontrol runs without any known problems on @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apache_HTTP_Server,Apache} and @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_Information_Services,IIS}.  Running GNU remotecontrol on a @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_of_lightweight_web_servers,lighweight} Web Server versus a @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_of_web_servers,complete} Web Server is possible, but not recommended.  This is due to the security benefits of a complete Web Server.  Again, you are responsible for setting up your security on your Web Server.

@subsection Configuration
Follow the configuration stated by the Web Server application you so choose to use.

Here is what you need for running GNU remotecontrol on Apache, after you setup your security on your Web Server.

	@itemize @bullet
	@item
	@strong{Apache httpd.config:}
	
	Options FollowSymLinks
	 
	AllowOverride None
	
	Order allow,deny
	Allow from all
	
	AuthType Digest
	
	AuthName "tstat"
	
	AuthUserFile "PATH_TO.../passwords_digest"
	
	Require user GNU remotecontrol
	
	

	@item
	@strong{Settings necessary in your PHP configuration (php.ini):}
	
	register_globals = Off
	
	auto_globals_jit = On
	
	

	@item
	@strong{Extensions necessary in your PHP installation:}
	
	php_curl
	
	php_mysqli
    @end itemize


@section Database Server
@subsection Security Model
GNU remotecontrol is configured with the security necessary for any other @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Database_application,Database Application}.  You are responsible for setting up your security on your @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Database_server,Database Server}.

@subsection Requirements
Follow the requirements stated by the Database application you so choose to use.


GNU remotecontrol runs without any known problems on @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MySQL,MySQL}.  Running GNU remotecontrol on a @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Back-end_database#Small_Database_Systems,lighweight} Database Server versus a @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_of_relational_database_management_systems,complete} Database Server is possible, but not recommended.  This is due to the security benefits of a complete Database Server.  Again, you are responsible for setting up your security on your Database Server.

@subsection Configuration
Follow the requirements stated by the Database application you so choose to use.

There is only 1 database script, @emph{iptstat.sql}.  This script builds the GNU remotecontrol database.  From there, you apply your security model as you see fit.

@section Remote Monitoring Server

@subsection Security Model
GNU remotecontrol is configured with the security necessary for any other @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Remote_monitoring,Remote Monitoring} application. You are responsible for setting up your security on your Remote Monitoring Server. 

@subsection Options
The question must be answered....@strong{why would you not monitor your systems}?  If your answer contents you to not have a Remote Monitoring Server, so be it.  Perhaps you trust the decisions and work of others enough to not bother with setting up a Remote Monitoring Server.  That is often a poor choice.

Running a Remote Monitoring Server is the easy part of having a Remote Monitoring Server.  The biggest decision you have to make is.....@strong{ are you going to run it, or is someone else}?  Then, and only then, choose the technology combination you want to have for your Remote Monitoring Server.  Do not let your skill set alone decide what is best for meeting your needs.  Determine what you needs are, count the cost, and then choose your technology.

We have developed plugins for Nagios that quite nicely round out the energy management strategy.  Check out the Nagios Plugins.

@strong{Popular Options}
	 
	 @itemize @bullet
	 @item
	 @uref{http://www.nagios.org/,Nagios}
	 @item
	 @uref{http://www.solarwinds.com/,Solar Winds}
	 @item
	 @uref{http://www.mmonit.com/,M/Monit}
	 @end itemize

@quotation Note:
There are many, many other options to choose.
@end quotation

@subsection Requirements
Follow the requirements stated by the Remote Monitoring application you so choose to use.

@subsection Configuration
Follow the configuration stated by the Remote Monitoring application you so choose to use.

@section Nagios Plugins
We have developed 2 plugins to round out the GNU remotecontrol Architecture.  The outcome of these plugins is to capture numbers related to your IP enabled thermostat and RSS feeds for weather information out of doors.  Numbers are so much easier for processing data to achieve knowledge.  Text, images, video, and so on are on quite complicated to process into knowledge.  The metrics of @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Temperature,Temperature}, @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Humidity,Humidity}, @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wind_speed,Wind Speed}, @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wind_chill,Wind Chill}, and @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Barometric_pressure,Atmospheric (Barometric) Pressure} fit into the rapid processing of HVAC data into knowledge with light speed.  Certainly other metrics can be added in as preferred, as shared below.

Please review the source code for each of these plugins to see detailed instruction for proper usage.  The following is an outline of the detailed instruction.

@subsection Thermostat Plugin - check_ubicom
This plugin will attempt to read temperature and humidity from an IP thermostat.   Successful reads initially set the response to @code{STATE_OK}.  If the temperature or  humidity falls outside the range set by the @code{warn-temperature} or the  @code{warn-humidity} arguments, then the response is upgraded to @code{STATE_WARNING}.  If the temperature or humidity falls outside the range set by the @code{critical-temperature} or the @code{critical-humidity} arguments, then the response is further upgraded to @code{STATE_CRITICAL}.  Failure to read both values (due to timeout or parsing failure) results in a @code{STATE_UNKNOWN} response.

Temperature and humidity arguments may specify a minimum, a maximum, or both.   A ':' character must be used to follow a minimum or precede a maximum.  For example.....


@subsubsection Syntax Example - IMPERIAL

@emph{check_ubicom -wt :70 -ct :90 -wh 10: -ch 5: -t 60 -I example.remote-mon.com -u /status.shtml}


@subsubsection Result Example - IMPERIAL

     @itemize @bullet
	 @item
	 Returns CRITICAL if temperature is above 90F or humidity is below 10%.
	 @item
	 Returns WARNING if temperature is above 70F or humidity is below 5.
	 @item
	 Returns OK if temperature is 70F or below.
	 @item
	 Returns UNKNOWN if no response received within 60 seconds.
	 @end itemize

@subsubsection Syntax Example - METRIC

@emph{check_ubicom -m -wt 0:30 --critical-temperature=-10:50 -I example.remote-mon.com -u /status.shtml}

@subsubsection Result Example - METRIC

     @itemize @bullet
	 @item
	 Returns CRITICAL if temperature is below -10C or above 50C.
	 @item
	 Returns WARNING if temperature is below 0C or above 30C.
	 @item
	 Returns OK if temperature is from 0C to 30C.
	 @item
	 Returns UNKNOWN if no response received within 10 seconds.
	 @end itemize

@subsubsection Syntax Example - Macro
define command@{

        command_name    check_ubicom_whatever
		
        command_line    $USER1$/check_ubicom -I 10.10.10.22 -p 8264
		
@}

@subsection Weather Plugin - check_weather
The check_weather plugin checks the windchill, windspeed, humidity, pressure, and temperature received from @uref{http://developer.yahoo.com/weather/,Yahoo! Weather RSS Feed} for a single station code.  The return value is always OK or UNKNOWN.

You are certainly free to use any other RSS feed you prefer.  Examples of this include @uref{http://portal.theweatherchannel.com/,The Weather Channel} and @uref{http://www.wunderground.com/weather/api/,Weather Underground}.  All of these RSS feeds have free and paid options.  Please carefully read their provisions if you select to use their RSS feed.

The performance values returned by the check_weather plugin, @strong{in order}, are:
@enumerate
@item
wind chill (apparent temperature) in degrees F or degrees C
@item
wind speed in m.p.h. or km.p.h.
@item
relative humidity in percent
@item
barometric pressure in in.Hg or mm.Hg
@item
current temperature in degrees F or degrees C
@end enumerate

@subsubsection Syntax Example - IMPERIAL
@emph{check_weather -z USTN0268}

@subsubsection Result Example - IMPERIAL
OK|52 8 88 29.68 52

@enumerate
@item
52 degrees Fahrenheit windchill
@item
8 mph wind speed
@item
88% relative humidity
@item
29.7 in.Hg barometric pressure
@item
52 degrees Fahrenheit actual temperature
@end enumerate

@subsubsection Syntax Example - METRIC
@emph{check_weather -z USTN0268 -m}

@subsubsection Result Example - METRIC
OK|35 12.8748 88 753.872 35

@enumerate
@item
35 degrees Celsius windchill temperature
@item
12.8 km/h wind speed
@item
88% relative humidity
@item
758.8 mm.Hg barometric pressure
@item
35 degrees Celsius actual temperature
@end enumerate

@subsubsection Syntax Example - Macro
define command@{

        command_name    check_weather_knox
		
        command_line    $USER1$/check_weather -z USTN0268
		
@}

These plugins are developed under the Nagios @uref{http://www.nagios.com/legal/,License}.

@section Email Server

@subsection Security Model
GNU remotecontrol is configured with the security necessary for any other @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Email_server,Email Server}.  You are responsible for setting up your security on your Email Server .

@subsection Options
The email used in the GNU remotecontrol Architecture is for sending email from your Remote Monitoring Server to you, via your Email Server.

Options include either a @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Server_%28computing%29,Physical Server}, a @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virtual_server,Virtual Server}, or an email service such as @uref{http://www.dyn.com/email/,DynDNS Email} or @uref{http://support.google.com/mail/bin/answer.py?hl=en&answer=13287,Google Mail} to achieve that which is necessary for the Email Server of the GNU remotecontrol Architecture.

Managing email activity is a full-time job.  Managing @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Email_account,Email Accounts}, managing @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electronic_mailing_list,Electronic Mailing List} and @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Distribution_lists,Distribution list}, dealing with spam, viruses, and other security threats.....it really is a lot to juggle.  Do yourself a favor and become very clear on these 3 items:  
     @itemize @bullet
	 @item
	 @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mail_Delivery_Agent,Mail Delivery Agent}
	 @item
	 @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mail_transfer_agent,Mail Transfer Agent}
	 @item
	 @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mail_user_agent,Mail User Agent}
	 @end itemize

Then, do yourself a very big favor and become very clear on these 4 items:
     @itemize @bullet
	 @item
	 @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/E-mail_authentication,Email Authentication}
	 @item
	 @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/S/MIME,S/MIME}
	 @item
	 @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SMTP_Authentication,SMTP Authentication}
	 @item
	 @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transport_Layer_Security,Transport Layer Security}
	 @end itemize
	 

Check out @uref{http://www.sendmail.org/m4/masquerading.html,Masquerading and Relaying} for mental expansion.  The combinations of running email on 1 server are almost limitless.  Combining a Physical Server with a Virtual Server and different email services make for assuring email happens about as close to a certainty as possible.

@subsection Requirements
Follow the requirements stated by the Email application you so choose to use.

Please note that you do not need to get into @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Encrypted_email,encrypted email}, unless you want to.  The big difference is encrypted email encrypts the file in your email client.  The Email Authentication moves an un-encrypted email through an encrypted means of transporting the said email.  Think of it as a paper letter in a paper envelope in a concrete hallway versus a paper letter in a strong box in the middle of a city sidewalk.

Now, understanding all of these items will equip you to talk to your Email Administrator, or your Internet Service Provider, or a Mail Relay Provider.  That administrator will ask you several questions about how you want email handled for GNU remotecontrol.  Prepare beforehand for that discussion.  The discussion will go much better if you are familiar with and understand these items.

@subsection Configuration
Follow the configuration stated by the Email application you so choose to use.

The email you most likely will want is to be notified of a condition occurring and you are notified by your Remote Monitoring Server.  You do not need to keep the email, nor do you need to do any reporting on the emailing.  All of the information you would ever need to report on lives in your Remote Monitoring Server as either log file or a database.  The benefit of your email is to be notified when you need to look into something, and that is all.  The benefit of that awareness is priceless.  Combine that with managing those email notifications to you and others in the lists of email addresses, that all of the time changes, makes email really valuable for managing the time of everyone involved.

Note: Don't use an SMS address when sending email to cell phones.  Use the cell phone's email address via the @uref{http://www.makeuseof.com/tag/email-to-sms/,Free Email To SMS Gateways}.  Major United States Carriers offer this to both email and SMS users.  Look for the same options of the cell phone provider's of the land in which you live.  You will be much happier using the cell phone's email address, as you can easily track if the message went out or not, versus wondering about the SMS system in which knowing is often a mystery, and it is 1 less system to work with.


@section Frequently Asked Questions
@subsection What is RMS?
RMS is the acronym of Remote Monitoring Server.

@subsection What is Remote Monitoring Server?
A Remote Monitoring Server regularly keeps track of your chosen networked device (computers, email servers, web servers, routers, IP thermostats, et cetera) and notifies you with alerts of any problems when they occur.

@subsection Why do I need RMS?
If you want to know the status of any IP addressable device, you need to monitor it. If you do not have the time/effort available to stand there and watch the device yourself, you need something to automatically monitor it and record the results for you to review at your leisure. Ideally, that Remote Monitoring Server will promptly notify you of anything occurring that you have defined as a problem. An automated technology that remotely monitors your equipment, commonly referred to as “stuff”. This is RMS.
	 
@subsection What will RMS do for me?
Watch your “stuff” and tell you when your “stuff” has a problem. It logs the results of the monitoring of your “stuff” for you to review in a web page based format. That will help you figure out very quickly if something is wrong and what is wrong with your “stuff”.
	 
@subsection How do I use RMS?
Pretty easy, actually. Setup your Remote Monitoring Server, decide what network and devices you want to be monitored. From there, you receive an email and/or SMS message to your cell phone when there is a problem.
	 
@subsection Does a Remote Monitoring Server do graphing?
Oh yes, yes indeed!
	 
@subsection Mobile access for RMS?
Yes, but it depends on who you have for cell phone service, the type of cell phone you have, and the Internet browser on that phone.
	 
@subsection Is it difficult to use RMS?
No more difficult than receiving an email or SMS message. From there, looking at a web page to see the history of your monitoring activity, if you like.
	 
@subsection Can I use RMS to monitor my...dog?
If your dog has an Internet accessible IP address, yes.
	 
@subsection Will RMS notify me by email and my dog by SMS?
Yes.  Please be sure your dog has a way to receive the SMS message!  A Remote Monitoring Server has the ability to fulfill very sophisticated notifications requirements.
	 
@subsection How many emails/SMS messages will I get?
More than enough for you to know if and when there is a problem. A notification system is almost limitless in how it can be configured for you. A good example is not receiving all SMS message in the middle of the night, but only the SMS messages you say you must have 'round the clock. When you receive a notification, how many times you receive a subsequent notification for the same failure and who receives that notifications...all set up as you want it to be.
	 
@subsection How many different email addresses will you send me notifications to?
Often, there is a primary and a secondary person in a monitoring notification. Each person has an email address and an SMS address.
	 
@subsection Can I use RMS to help Test & Balance my HVAC system?
Yes. RMS & GNU remotecontrol work together to help you do just this. Having recorded data for your system usage and outdoors weather information is priceless for testing & balancing. It offers considerable cost savings, in both time and effort, to review recorded data to optimize your system setup. Additionally, you can reduce the number of people necessary to do the testing and balancing down to 1 person.
	 
@subsection Do I need RMS?
Not to sound silly, but RMS prevents a mess. It is impossible to consciously improve anything without first measuring it. You may stumble upon a way to improve it, but is that a pro-active approach to managing anything? Of course not. To help improve things, RMS helps by monitoring the status your resources. The unknown things of life can crop in and cause problems. The faster you know about a problem, the faster you can stop any damage that problem may cause. RMS helps you take advantage of the opportunity to improve how you manage things, so the chance of a problem returning becomes less likely.
	 
@subsection Really, how do I know that I need RMS?
If you worry about your “stuff”, and your “stuff” has an IP address, you need RMS.

@node Usage Instructions
@chapter Usage Instructions
@section Browser Selection
GNU remotecontrol is designed to be used with either @uref{http://www.mozilla.org/,Mozilla Firefox}, or with @uref{http://www.konqueror.org/,Konqueror}.  Microsoft @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_Explorer,Internet Explorer} (IE), though one of the worlds first @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_the_web_browser,graphical} options for a @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_browser,web browser} and is credited with helping to grow the Internet past @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Timeline_of_web_browsers,text browsing}, the application @uref{http://www.microsoft.com/ie,IE} simply changes too much and too often to deal with all of the inconsistencies of the browser not being compliant with @uref{http://www.w3.org/standards/agents/browsers,International Standards} of the World Wide Web.  In addition, IE only runs on the Windows operating system whereas GNU remotecontrol runs on any server that can run @uref{http://php.net/downloads.php,PHP}.....of which there are many.

Please review the various use case scenarios prior to reading how to go
about Using GNU remotecontrol (@xref{Use Case Scenarios }).  These will greatly help you to see the value of Using GNU remotecontrol.

@section admin.php
This webpage provides User Management in the GNU remotecontrol application.

IS THIS BY THE O/S or elsewhere???  Can't remember
You set the User Name for the GNU remotecontrol user account to be the same as the User Name on the Web Server user account.

You set the total number of thermostats the user account can have to whatever you prefer.

@subsection Fields
     @itemize @bullet
	 @item
	 @strong{Total # of subscribers} - The total count of User Name entries in your GNU remotecontrol database.
	 @item
	 @strong{Total # of thermostats} - The total count of thermostats in your GNU remotecontrol database.
	 @item
	 @strong{User Name} - The GNU remotecontrol user account.
	 @item
	 @strong{Max # Therms} - The maximum number of thermostats allowed for that user account.
	 @end itemize


@section index.php
You are ready to use index.php web page after you have setup your entry in the admin.php web page.

Day in and day out, you will want to know the settings on the different IP enabled thermostats you are charged with caring for.  Using GNU remotecontrol will help you see if anyone has changed the settings on an IP enabled thermostat, thereby altering if not defeating your energy management strategy.  Combing into the equation a Remote Monitoring Server with Email Server notification and you are on top of the game for energy management.

Loading index.php causes each attribute of each device to be read.  The parameters currently set on the device are listed in the web page.  The error code BLAH is displayed if the device is unresponsive or unreachable.  Please see the section Troubleshooting for more information.

Reload the web page index.php at any time to poll each device and read the current parameters of the attributes for all device entries.

@subsection Write to a device
Here are the steps when using GNU remotecontrol for writing to any device:
	 @enumerate
	 @item
	 Select the device you want to write to by way of the check-box.
	 @item
	 Change the attributes and parameters as you prefer.
	 @item
	 Click Submit.
	 @end enumerate
	 
@subsection Execution of Submit button
GNU remotecontrol then does the following:
	 @enumerate
	 @item
	 Goes to each device and makes the changes.
	 @item
	 Populates the Transaction Log in the GNU remotecontrol database.
	 @item
	 Refresh index.php and display @strong{only} those new parameters for the attributes changes of the selected device.
	 @end enumerate

The benefit of step 3 is the entire list of device attributes do not get polled again.  This is a considerable time and bandwidth savings.

Reload the web page index.php at any time to poll each device and read the current parameters of the attributes for all device entries.


@subsection Setting up a device  (work on this after Rob finishes the edits.....)

@quotation Note:
Highlighted fields are required.
@end quotation

@quotation Note:
You must have the password to the admin user account for the device to want GNU remotecontrol to write to.  This is to ensure that the user of GNU remotecontrol has admin access to the device.  Mandating usage of the admin user account further assures that writing to the device occurs by a user with complete authority to that device.
@end quotation

***START HERE TO SETUP THE REST OF THE WEB PAGE COMPONENTS***
Welcome back, '.$currentUser->UserName

Your current subscription allows a maximum of '.$currentUser->MaxTherms.' thermostats.

@subsection Fields
     @itemize @bullet
	 @item
	 Device Name
	 @item
	 Site Name
	 @item
	 Model #
	 @item
	 JUT Name
	 @item
	 JUT Description
	 @item
	 Domain Name/IP
	 @item
	 Port
	 @item
	 Login
     @end itemize

@subsubsection Alerts								

     @itemize @bullet
	 @item
	 Low Temperature Alert!
	 @item
	 High Temperature Alert!
	 @item
	 High Humidity Alert!
	 @item
	 Filter Change Required
     @end itemize


echo '<input type="checkbox" id="Select_'.$thermostat->ID.'" onclick="toggleSelectThermostat(this);" />';

echo '<a href="javascript:void(0);" id="Edit_'.$thermostat->ID.'" onclick="editThermostat('.$thermostat->ID.');" class="edit">Edit</a>';
echo '<a href="javascript:void(0);" id="Update_'.$thermostat->ID.'" onclick="updateThermostat('.$thermostat->ID.');" class="update">Update</a>';
echo '&nbsp;<a href="javascript:void(0);" id="Cancel_'.$thermostat->ID.'" onclick="cancelEditThermostat('.$thermostat->ID.');" class="cancel">Cancel</a>';

     @itemize @bullet
     @item
	 DeviceName
     @item
	 Site Name
     @item
	 Model Number
     @item
	 JUT Name
     @item
	 Description
     @item
	 Host	 
     @item
	 Port
	 @end itemize

	
     @itemize @bullet
     @item
	 Currently Viewing
     @item
	 Done
     @item
	 Error
     @item
	 NoTrans
     @item
	 Delete	 
	 @end itemize

@subsubsection HVAC Settings
HVAC Mode:

     @itemize @bullet
     @item
	 Heat
     @item
	 Cool
     @item
	 Auto
	 @end itemize
	
@subsubsection Fan Mode

     @itemize @bullet
     @item
	 Auto
     @item
	 On
     @item
	 Schedule
	 @end itemize

@subsubsection Setback Status

     @itemize @bullet
     @item
	 Normal
     @item
	 Hold
     @item
	 Override
	 @end itemize

@subsubsection Setback Scheduling

Class Schedules

     @itemize @bullet
     @item
	 Occupied
     @item
	 Unoccupied
     @item
	 Other
	 @end itemize

Period
Time
Heat
Cool
Fan
Time
Heat
Cool
Fan
Time
Heat
Cool
Fan

     @itemize @bullet
     @item
	 Heat
     @item
	 Cool
     @item
	 Fan
	 @end itemize

     @itemize @bullet
     @item
	 Morn
     @item
	 Day
     @item
	 Eve
     @item
	 Night
	 @end itemize

     @itemize @bullet
     @item
	 Off
     @item
	 On
	 @end itemize

@subsubsection Default Weekly Schedule

     @itemize @bullet
     @item
	 Sun
     @item
	 Mon
     @item
	 Tue
     @item
	 Wed
     @item
	 Thu
     @item
	 Fri
	 Sat
	 @end itemize


     @itemize @bullet
     @item
	 Occupied
     @item
	 Unoccupied
     @item
	 Other
	 @end itemize

@subsubsection Sensor Settings

     @itemize @bullet
	 @item
	 State
	 @item
	 Averaging
	 @item
	 Correction
	 @end itemize

@strong{Local Sensor Averaging:}
     @itemize @bullet
     @item
	 Disabled
     @item
	 Enabled
	 @end itemize

@strong{Remote Sensor 1 State:}
     @itemize @bullet
     @item
	 Disabled
     @item
	 Enabled
	 @end itemize

@strong{Remote Sensor 1 Averaging:}
     @itemize @bullet
     @item
	 Disabled
     @item
	 Enabled
	 @end itemize

@strong{Remote Sensor 2 State:}
     @itemize @bullet
     @item
	 Disabled
     @item
	 Enabled
	 @end itemize

@strong{Remote Sensor 2 Averaging:}
     @itemize @bullet
     @item
	 Disabled
     @item
	 Enabled
	 @end itemize


@subsubsection Date and Time

"Enter as it will be in the time zone of the selected thermostat(s)"

     @itemize @bullet
     @item
	 Jan
     @item
	 Feb
     @item
	 Mar
     @item
	 Apr
     @item
	 May
     @item
	 Jun
     @item
	 Jul
     @item
	 Aug
     @item
	 Sep
     @item
	 Oct
     @item
	 Nov
     @item
	 Dec
	 @end itemize

     @itemize @bullet
     @item
	 TIME
     @item
	 AM
     @item
	 PM
	 @end itemize


     @itemize @bullet
     @item
	 (GMT -12:00) Eniwetok, Kwajalein
     @item
	 (GMT -11:00) Midway Island, Samoa
     @item
	 (GMT -10:00) Hawaii
     @item
	 (GMT -9:00) Alaska
     @item
	 (GMT -8:00) Pacific Time (US &amp; Canada)
     @item
	 (GMT -7:00) Mountain Time (US &amp; Canada)
     @item
	 (GMT -6:00) Central Time (US &amp; Canada), Mexico City
     @item
	 (GMT -5:00) Eastern Time (US &amp; Canada), Bogota, Lima
     @item
	 (GMT -4:00) Atlantic Time (Canada), Caracas, La Paz
     @item
	 (GMT -3:30) Newfoundland
     @item
	 (GMT -3:00) Brazil, Buenos Aires, Georgetown
     @item
	 (GMT -2:00) Mid-Atlantic
     @item
	 (GMT -1:00 hour) Azores, Cape Verde Islands
     @item
	 (GMT) Western Europe Time, London, Lisbon, Casablanca
     @item
	 (GMT +1:00 hour) Brussels, Copenhagen, Madrid, Paris
     @item
	 (GMT +2:00) Kaliningrad, South Africa
     @item
	 (GMT +3:00) Baghdad, Riyadh, Moscow, St. Petersburg
     @item
	 (GMT +3:30) Tehran
     @item
	 (GMT +4:00) Abu Dhabi, Muscat, Baku, Tbilisi
     @item
	 (GMT +4:30) Kabul
     @item
	 (GMT +5:00) Ekaterinburg, Islamabad, Karachi, Tashkent
     @item
	 (GMT +5:30) Bombay, Calcutta, Madras, New Delhi
     @item
	 (GMT +5:45) Kathmandu
     @item
	 (GMT +6:00) Almaty, Dhaka, Colombo
     @item
	 (GMT +7:00) Bangkok, Hanoi, Jakarta
     @item
	 (GMT +8:00) Beijing, Perth, Singapore, Hong Kong
     @item
	 (GMT +9:00) Tokyo, Seoul, Osaka, Sapporo, Yakutsk
     @item
	 (GMT +9:30) Adelaide, Darwin
     @item
	 (GMT +10:00) Eastern Australia, Guam, Vladivostok
     @item
	 (GMT +11:00) Magadan, Solomon Islands, New Caledonia
     @item
	 (GMT +12:00) Auckland, Wellington, Fiji, Kamchatka
	 @end itemize


@section transactionhistory.php
This webpage provides the Transaction Log in the GNU remotecontrol application.  This webpage is read-only.

ARE WE SURE???
A useful feature of the Transaction Log is the ability to list entries according to ascending/descending priority in different columns, by clicking on the column header.  Also, entering search values in the respective fields to quickly filter and display the rows you are looking for.

@subsection Fields
     @itemize @bullet
	 @item
	 @strong{Thermostat} - The device/unique ID/whatever that was changed.
	 @item
	 @strong{Field} - The device attribute that was changed.
	 @item
	 @strong{Old Value} - The previous parameter of the attribute that was changed.
	 @item
	 @strong{New Value} - The current parameter of the attribute that was changed.
	 @item
	 @strong{Timestamp} - The Date/Time the device attribute was changed.
     @end itemize

@section Troubleshooting
     @itemize @bullet
	 @item
	 Go to your error log for your Web Server any time you find a problem where something just doesn't seem to be working, and you're not receiving an error directly from GNU remotecontrol.
	 
	 @item
	 If the IP enabled thermostat is not available because it is powered off or the data network that contains the IP enabled thermostat has problems, here is what happens:
		@enumerate
		@item
		During load of index.php, as it reads the device (IP enabled thermostat) in the list at the top to get their current settings, if any device that is unavailable, after a few seconds of no response it passes to the next one instead of halting the process.
		@item
		The error will state @strong{TRANSERROR:} followed by whatever the error message is (whatever CURL deems is the problem) followed by the unique ID of the device.
		@end enumerate
     @end itemize

@section Usage Recommendations

     @itemize @bullet
	 @item
	 Restrict your data network to only allow a few network addresses to connect to the IP enabled thermostats.  This makes sure the IP enabled thermostat does not get overloaded and fails to respond, possibly requiring the IP enabled thermostat to be power cycled.  Using the logged information of by minute and by quarter hour to run your reporting.
	 @item
	 Script setting the time on your IP enabled thermostats.  Recommend setting the time every month.  Clocks are always gaining or loosing a few seconds here and there, to the point that it adds up to a few minutes here and there.  Setting the time on a regular monthly basis avoids the whole gaining and loosing problem.
	 @item
	 Script setting your heating/cooling/ventilation levels as a comparison of outdoors conditions.  Say so many degrees difference between outside and inside, same for a difference in percentage of relative humidity.
	 @item
	 Setup your database to log temperature and humidity every minute.  Do this for 15 concurrent minutes.  Then, you have a granular read of data in combination with your Remote Monitoring Server recording the same information in 15-minute intervals.
	 @item
	 Use the Remote Monitoring of your location to change a @uref{http://css-tricks.com/using-weather-data-to-change-your-websites-apperance-through-php-and-css/,website appearance}.
	 @item
	 Use the Remote Monitoring of your location to build @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_widget,Software Widgets} and/or @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_widget,Web Widgets}.
	 @item
	 Setup a simple webpage that will fit the temperature and humidity readings of both the thermostats and the weather conditions you care about onto the screen of your @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microbrowser,cell phone}.  You then can easily see, @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mobile_Web,in 1 viewing}, what you care to know.
	 @end itemize

@node Use Case Scenarios
@chapter Use Case Scenarios
@section  Start Small
You can run GNU remotecontrol on a laptop, a desktop, even a hand-held computer....as long as you can achieve setting up your Web Server and Database Server.

Benefits of running GNU remotecontrol on a smaller hardware combination include:
     @itemize @bullet
	 @item
	 Getting GNU remotecontrol up and running for a Proof-of-Concept.
	 @item
	 Managing the HVAC systems of different sites without having to be at each of those sites.
	 @end itemize

@section  Food for Thought
There are many different ways you can use the data you collect:
     @itemize @bullet
	 @item
	 @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rss,Really Simple Syndication} (RSS)
	 @item
	 @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Atom_%28standard%29,Atom}
	 @item
	 @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_service,Web Service}
	 @item
	 @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_widget,Software Widget}
	 @item
	 @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_widget,Web Widget}
	 @end itemize

@section Scenario 1 - Building Maintenance
This person is overworked and underpaid at the @strong{ABC Corporation}.  They have a boss that all the time wants to know if “thus and so” got done.  This person needs a way to get things done faster and have automated documentation that it happened.

This person uses GNU remotecontrol to help with setting the HVAC in this company, and does a screen shot of the transaction history for his boss to see.

@section Scenario 2 - Property Manager
This person is overworked and underpaid at @strong{Manage 4 You Property Management Corporation}.  They have a boss that all the time wants to know if “thus and so” got done.  This person needs a way to get things done faster and have automated documentation that it happened.

This person uses GNU remotecontrol to help with setting the HVAC in the properties to save big time on energy cost, and does a screen shot of the transaction history for their boss to see.

@section Scenario 3 - Restaurant Operations
This person is doing pretty well in life.  This person has several restaurants around town @strong{(Super Good Burgers)} that each have 2 different HVAC units.  This person also setup an IP thermostat in their house.  Later, they needed to care for their elderly mother, so they put an IP thermostat in the house of their mother as well.  When this person sets the IP thermostat in their house, they set the house of their mother the same way.  This way, this person knows pretty well how things are in the house of their mother, even though they are not there with their mother.  They are very busy with their restaurant business, so they do not have the time to go to see their mother as often as they would like to.  However, they talk on the phone daily.  ;-)

The corporate office is all of the time messing with the IP thermostat and there is a lot of inner-office politics from this problem as well.  This person wanted that problem to go away, and to quit paying through the nose in electric bill to keep the air conditioning going.  This person set's the corporate office the same as their home, so they know the climate in the office pretty much the same as the climate in their home.  They can now can shut down arguments often before they happen.

This person is saving so much money on energy costs they were able to buy a cabin in the mountains for when they and their family want to get away from the ocean front, where they live.  This person sets the temperature nicely before they arrive.  He also makes sure that the temperature and humidity in their cabin is not too extreme, so pipes don’t burst, and that there is not a mold/mildew problem.

@section Scenario 4 - Office Worker
This person is overworked and underpaid at @strong{Super-Duper Insurance Company}.  They haves a boss that all the time wants to know if “thus and so” got done.  They need a way to get things done faster and have automated documentation that it happened.

They use GNU remotecontrol to help with setting the HVAC in this company, and does a screen shot of the transaction history for their boss to see.

@section Scenario 5 - Certified Energy Manager
The Certified Energy Manager (CEM) needs to manage multiple sites for multiple customers.  The CEM needs to log data over a long period of time.  The CEM needs to adjust setpoints on different HVAC equipment to work out the specific energy control measures for each customer.

The CEM can setup GNU remotecontrol over different computers.  The Web Server, Database Server, Email Server, and Remote Monitoring server are separate for the CEM laptop.  The CEM is free to travel and access GNU remotecontrol as necessary to adjust setpoints, while receiving notifications that something needs attention.  The CEM is not bound to their laptop all day long.

@section Scenario 6 - Industrial Manufacturing Facility
This site has many different air-handling units, many different dampers, and several sources of heat.  The facility has a staff to handle on-site maintenance.

@section Scenario 7 - Facility Manager
A bit different than a manufacturing facility.  Can be an office building or whatever.

Finance guy watching him.

He doing what CEM says to do.

Thermostats and Sensors getting a build up of dust, oil, or other pollutants on them, defeating their ability to operate well or at all.

Assist with device calibrating efforts, as a hand-held thermostat and a networked sensor showing the same reading is always preferred.

He chasing his workers.

Justify HVAC upgrades as appropriate to different areas of the facility.  Examples of this include a fan, a compressor, a coil, or changing from constant air volume to a variable air volume terminal unit.

This site has many different air-handling units, many different dampers, and several sources of heat.  The facility has a staff to handle on-site maintenance.

There are loads of reasons to implement automation in this facility.  Mostly, to help the staff accomplish their work in a timely manner, and assure they have a way to schedule vacation time for the staff.

@section Scenario 8 - Financial Manager
Blurb for who is paying the bucks for energy!!!

@section Scenario 9 - Public Utility Provider - RESIDENTIAL Customer
This provider has decided to offer an energy management service to their customer.  They have thousands and thousands of customers.  They need a way to help their customer manage their thermostat and air flow in their residential and commercial facilities.

The provider has a 2 part offering to their customer.  The provider uses GNU remotecontrol to do more than just turn off the electricity and/or natural gas to the HVAC unit.  They now are capable of providing temperature adjustments while having HVAC fan circulate air, or only circulate air.  The combination options available now are are much more than turning off the entire HVAC unit.  The provider also uses Smart Metering to connect HVAC usage with energy meter readings to show readings on an hourly basis.  This combined offering provides for a better control of HVAC resources and a better understanding of energy usage as the billing cycle progresses.

@section Scenario 10 - Public Utility Provider - COMMERCIAL Customer
This provider has decided to offer an energy management service to their customer.  They have thousands and thousands of customers.  They need a way to help their customer manage their thermostat and air flow in their residential and commercial facilities.

The provider has a 2 part offering to their customer.  The provider uses GNU remotecontrol to do more than just turn off the electricity and/or natural gas to the HVAC unit.  They now are capable of providing temperature adjustments while having HVAC fan circulate air, or only circulate air.  The combination options available now are are much more than turning off the entire HVAC unit.  The provider also uses Automated Meter Reading and Smart Metering to connect HVAC usage with energy meter readings to show readings on an hourly basis.  This combined offering provides for a better control of HVAC resources and a better understanding of energy usage as the billing cycle progresses.

@section Scenario 11 - Automated Meter Reading
@uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Automated_meter_reading,Automated Meter Reading} is not the same as Smart Metering.  They are both part of @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Smart_meter#Advanced_metering_infrastructure,Advanced Metering Infrastructure}.  The Automated Meter Reading process blah.  Automated Meter Reading....

@section Scenario 12 - Smart Metering
@uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Smart_meter,Smart Metering} is not the same as Automated Meter Reading.  They are both part of @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Smart_meter#Advanced_metering_infrastructure,Advanced Metering Infrastructure}.  The Smarter Metering process blah-blah blah.

@section Summary
There is no 1 reason to implement GNU remotecontrol.  The reasoning is often multiple and overlapping.  Think local and global and you will easily see there is more good reason to use GNU remotecontrol than ever considered before.

@node Implementation Cost
@chapter Implementation Cost
The GNU remotecontrol framework leverages already existing Information Technologies of a data network, web server with a complete operating system, database server, email, and network monitoring.  The cost to implement GNU remotecontrol is then reduced to the following ordered list:  

@enumerate
@item
Labor to obtain and prepare GNU remotecontrol.
@item
Labor to configure your already existing Information Technologies.
@item
Purchase @uref{https://sourceforge.net/p/openthermostat/wiki/Cabling%20101/,cabling supplies} to run from your data network to your IP enabled thermostat.
@item
Labor to install cabling supplies from your data network to your IP enabled thermostat.
@item
Purchase IP enabled thermostat.
@item
Labor to install IP enabled thermostat.
@item
Purchase @uref{https://sourceforge.net/p/openthermostat/wiki/PoE/,power supply} for IP enabled thermostat.
@item
Labor to install power supply for IP enabled thermostat.
@end enumerate

@quotation Note:
It is highly recommended you choose external sensors for your IP enabled thermostat having pre-wired cabling long enough to reach where you need the external sensor to reside. This pre-wired cabling, per manufacturer design and intent of their sensor, reduces the likelihood of the sensor resulting with skewed metrics.  Most external sensors are extremely touchy. This is a good thing, as it provides you with accurate metrics.  However, proper cable selection of an external sensor is paramount to proper metrics. Go with the option of a manufacturer having enough cable as-built to meet your needs and not splicing on additional cable.  Finally, consider the benefit of connecting your external sensor directly to your IP enabled thermostat, provided the IP enabled thermostat can accept it.  The benefit of sensor averaging is highly valuable to improving system performance.  A direct connection to the IP enabled thermostat also eliminates the need for another power supply to operate the external sensor.
@end quotation

The cost to implement GNU remotecontrol, in comparison with a lesser energy management strategy for any HVAC system, justifies the completion of a critical cost analysis to determine if GNU remotecontrol is appropriate for your circumstances.  Most likely, it is. 

@node Roadmap
@chapter Roadmap

The GNU remotecontrol Road Map is planned for and limited by the following boundaries.

@section Interoperability
The Future of GNU remotecontrol is a commitment to International
standards and protocols for Information Technology in order to provide
availability, relevance, transparency, and maintenance of the GNU
remotecontrol framework.  The BACnet XML Working Group is an excellent
example of these attributes. @xref{GNU remotecontrol & BACnet} for more information.

@section HVAC Original Equipment Manufacturer - Feature Addition
OEM's have not added the feature of IP enablement in the past.  The benefits for OEM's to add IP enablement to their thermostat product offering far outweigh any hindrance from remaining a stand alone device.  Examples of these benefits include interoperability, furthered energy management strategies, and increased customer satisfaction from the new capability of remote access to their thermostat.

@section HVAC Aftermarket Equipment Manufacturer - Feature Addition
AEM's have added the feature of IP enablement in the past with limited success.  This is mostly due to the dependency on another piece of technology to handle translation of some proprietary technology to the data network for the thermostat.  The success of the thermostat as a complimentary good is well proven.  There are hundreds of different programmable thermostats for sale at both the local home supply stores and globally.  Proper selection of any aftermarket product or service is critical to the success of the primary product being supplemented.  A simple example of this is selecting the different parts to enhance an engine for an automobile, or a boat, or a snow mobile, et cetera.  Aftermarket Equipment Manufacturers must demonstrate they have in their offering the capability to not damage the existing primary product.  Specifically, a heating and cooling system.  There must also be solid proof their offering enhances system performance by adding additional feature/benefit combinations.  Finally, the AEM must be constructed to meet manufacturing directives, such as @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ROHS,RoHS}.

@section Benefit Analysis
The @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rate_of_return,Return on Investment} (ROI) is most likely the bottom line to the success of GNU remotecontrol.  The @uref{http://sccmet.com/whatis.html,Retro Commission} (RCx) of any facility, small or large, is best evaluated by.....@strong{is it worth it}?  Even @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Testing_Adjusting_Balancing,Testing-Adjusting-Balancing} a system is well worth the time and effort, to make sure your system is setup as suitable for your needs and wants.  The answer to this ROI question involves completing several different calculations to make that determination.  New construction does not require as many calculations to come to that determination, but often require different aspects to be evaluated and then calculated.  Don't forget to add in the cost/saving of Information Technology.  This list includes system design, capital expenditures, and system operation.  Then, don't forget to add in your End User cost/saving for training and system operation.

Not every facility requires a complete set of calculations to know what you need to do for your energy management strategy.  Consider simple advice on best practices offered by your Decision Makers to help you select what is best for you.  Regardless of what you choose for your energy management strategy, have a plan.....work the plan.....review and revise your plan as appropriate.

@node REFERENCE
@chapter REFERENCE

@section Cabling 101
@subsection  Introduction

The intent of this writing is @strong{not} to make you an expert in cabling.  The intent is to provide you with the necessary reference information, tips, and recommendations for you to wisely use cabling.  There is no, repeat....no substitute for hands on experience with cabling.

Please carefully read all of this information before you attempt your cabling efforts.  Experience is a great teacher, so don't be afraid or discouraged if you mix up wiring patterns or do not terminate a connection well enough through the proper amount of pressure on a wire termination in the beginning of your cabling efforts.

@subsection  Cable
@uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category_5_cable,Category 5 cable} comes in many forms.  The cable is solid core 24-@uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/American_wire_gauge,AWG}.  8 separately jacketed wires, twisted in pairs, making 4 pairs all contained within a protective jacket.  The jacket that wraps around that cable is either @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Plenum_cable,Plenum} or Non-Plenum.  Plenum cable is rated for a fire hazard area.  Category 5 cabling is often rated as @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Low_voltage,low-voltage}, meaning you do not need a license to install the cable.  Please contact your local fire authority for more information.  

@subsection  Grounding
Proper cable grounding is essential for safety.  The assumption that the cable carries a low-voltage is true, but it also carries enough capability to damage the equipment connected together via your cable and you...the cabling person.  The differences between @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Surge_suppression,surge-suppression} and @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transient-voltage-suppression_diode,transient-voltage-suppression} cannot be stated enough.  Please contact your local fire authority for more information.

@subsection  Installation
Category 5 cable is installed in either @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electrical_conduit,electrical conduit}, @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cable_tray,cable trays}, or @uref{https://www.google.com/search?q=j-hooks,J-Hooks}.  Cable must, must, must be properly supported so as to not stretch the copper wire and cause for minor breaks in the wire.  Minor wire breaks cause for performance issues in @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quality_of_service,quality-of-service}, and lead to a breakage in one or more wires.  Cable is laid out in a pattern of either a @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Main_distribution_frame,main distribution frame} or an @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intermediate_distribution_frame,intermediate distribution frame}.

@subsection  Termination
Properly installed cable is then connected with some type of @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Registered_jack,registered jack/plug}.  This end result is called a cable termination.

@subsection  Testing
All cabling must have @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Continuity_test,continuity} all of the time.  A simple @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cable_tester,cable tester} is probably the most manageable @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Continuity_tester,continuity tester} there is after cable has been terminated with a registered jack/plug in order to determine if you have continuity.  If all else fails, connecting 2 bare wires together with a @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wire_nut,wire nut} on one end, then testing the other ends with a @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multimeter,multi-meter} is always an option.  This is quite valuable after cable has been laid in place and you want to know if it has continuity before terminating the cable.

@subsection  Usage Notes
	@itemize @bullet
	@item
	Your continuity tester will help you see when you have the proper wiring pattern and the proper amount of pressure on a wire termination.
	@item
	Pull some extra cable, loop it in a circle, and wire tie the cable loop together.  That provides for moving terminated cable if the future necessitates that, and has extra cable available for if you should mix up things when you terminate the cable.
	@item
	Don't make the diameter of your loop too small.  A 3-inch diameter cable loop results in nothing more than broken cable.  The same goes for when you install your cable and make a 90-degree turn.  Make you loop a good 9-inches in diameter at least.
	@item
	The satisfaction from installing your own cable is great, indeed.  The cost of installing your own cable is sometimes best paid for through a cabling company.  Count the cost and choose either your own labor or that of a cabling company that best suits you.
	@end itemize

@subsection  Cautionary
Whatever you do, always install your cable as required by your fire authority and always, always, always properly support your cable with either electrical conduit, cable trays, or J-Hooks.  Suffice it to say, cable that is not properly supported will eventually have small cracks in the wire, resulting in a quality-of-service loss, progressing to intermittent continuity problems, and ultimately completely break the wire somewhere within the cable jacket.

@section Power over Ethernet (PoE) 101
@subsection Introduction
@uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Power_over_Ethernet,Power over Ethernet} is quite possibly the best thing to come along to the Information Technology world of hardware since the 1980's.  Literally, it is that wonderful!  The essence of PoE is you can use @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category_5_cable,Category 5 cable,cable} that is rated as @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Low_voltage,low-voltage} to power a multitude of PoE hardware @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Power_over_Ethernet#Uses,uses}.  The list of what is capable of PoE is constantly growing.  For starters, here are some common terms to understand.

@subsection Power Sourcing Equipment
The @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Power_over_Ethernet#Power_sourcing_equipment,PSE} is the network PoE element that inserts power onto a Category 5 cable. It may be an endspan device, such as a PoE-enabled data network switch, or a midspan device located between the data network switch and the PD.

@subsection Powered Device
A @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Power_over_Ethernet#Powered_device,PD} is the PoE capable device that receives power over Category 5 cable. It could be a PoE-enabled IP telephone, a Wireless Access Point, an IP enabled HVAC thermostat, any other IP device that requires electrical power.

@subsection Midspan
A midspan device is a PSE that inserts power onto the Category 5 cable. It is situated between the data network switch and the PD. Typically, midspan devices are added to existing networks to allow the use of PoE-enabled PD's.

@subsection Endspan
An endspan device is typically a data network switch that incorporates PoE capabilities. Endspan devices often are implemented when a new network is created, to avoid adding midspan devices as well as the switch.

@subsection  Usage Notes
Now, should you need/want to move a device such as a Wireless Access Point, an IP telephone, or an HVAC sensor to another location.....image how nice it would be to not have to juggle the powering of that device as well.  There are many @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Power_over_Ethernet#Powering_devices,combination} options available for PoE capable hardware.

Pressing onward, imagine a device is locked up and you need to power the device off and then turn it back on.  Walking to that device could very well be a hassle, and could involve opening a lot of access panels.  Using PoE, you can turn off the power over your data network and then turn it back on.

The thing for you with PoE is you need to determine how much electrical power you need.  That will tell you what specification you need to comply with.  The manufacturer of the PoE device will tell you what standards they are compatible with.  From there, buy PoE supplies as necessary.  Your selection is either a simple single-port power injector (Midspan), or a @uref{http://www2.microsemi.com/PowerDsine/Products/Midspan/,rack-mounted} midspan power injector , or buy new data network switches that have PoE built-in as an integrated feature (Endspan).  Count the cost and choose as best suits you.

The biggest benefit of PoE is you have the ability to have a better handle on your @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Surge_suppression,surge-suppression} and @uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transient-voltage-suppression_diode,transient-voltage-suppression} efforts.  This is because you so chose to install your cabling as recommended.  Running a wire as an extension off of an HVAC unit, or a wall outlet, in order to supply electricity to power the PoE capable hardware, without also providing proper protection for that PoE hardware, is absolutely and positively nothing but trouble.  That trouble often shows up as electrical damage in the form of peculiar performance of the hardware, or even hardware failure.

@subsection  Cautionary
Here is a strong and very simple example of why powering your IP enabled thermostat from an HVAC unit is a bad idea.  The drain line on the HVAC unit some how gets blocked.  This triggers the float switch to prevent flooding and that powers down the whole system.  The thermostat has then been turned off due to the absence of power to the thermostat.  Apply that scenario to an IP enabled thermostat, and your will be unable to access your HVAC unit from your data network.  Power over Ethernet is a really good idea.

Whatever you do, always use cable safely.  Please contact your local fire authority for more information.

@node Contributors
@chapter Contributors
Stephen Dawson, Robert Tallent, Bob Vincent, Michael Jacoby.

@node GNU Free Documentation License
@chapter GNU Free Documentation License
@appendix GNU Free Documentation License
@c In order for the below `@include' command to work, the included file must be in the same directory as this file.
@include fdl.texi

@c Texinfo will populate the index automatically with the index entries you create using the `@cindex' command throughout the document. For more information, see Chapter 13 of the Texinfo manual.
@c @node Index
@c @chapter Index
@c @unnumbered Index
@c @printindex cp

@bye
